\input texinfo @c -*- mode: texinfo; sentence-end-double-space: t; -*-
@setfilename zee.info
@settitle The Zee Manual

@dircategory Text editors
@direntry
* Zee: (zee).                 Zee text editor.
@end direntry

@iftex
@finalout
@end iftex

@setchapternewpage odd

@titlepage
@title The Zee Manual
@subtitle for Zee version 0.7
@subtitle August 2007
@author Reuben Thomas

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@include copyright.texi
@end titlepage

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Top, Overview, (dir), (dir)

This is the @emph{Zee} manual.

Zee is an experimental editor.

@menu
* Overview::                    An overview of the Zee editor.
* FAQ::                         Frequently Asked Questions.
* Invoking Zee::                Command line options that you can give to Zee.
* Initialization files::        The @file{zeerc} initialization files.
* Key names::                   How the keys are named.
* Commands::                    The list of commands.
* Variables::                   The list of variables.
* Bug reports::                 How to report a bug.
@end menu

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Overview, FAQ, Top, Top
@chapter Overview

Zee is an experimental editor, hosted on SourceForge at
@uref{http://sourceforge.net/projects/zee/}.  It is free software,
licensed under the GNU GPL.

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node FAQ, Invoking Zee, Overview, Top
@chapter FAQ

@section General questions
@enumerate
@item
@emph{What does `Zee' mean?}
Nothing.  It sounds like `Zi', which is the name I wanted, to show its
descent from Zile (@uref{http://zile.sourceforge.net}).
SourceForge doesn't allow two-letter names, so I
chose `Zee' instead, which can be pronounced the same.
@item
@emph{Zee is weird!}
Zee was written to be as small and simple as possible.  If you don't like
it, it might be because it doesn't work the way you're used to, or it
may have been badly designed.  If after trying it for a bit you still
don't like the way it works, please tell us what you don't like (see Bug
Reports for the address).
@end enumerate

@section Functionality
@enumerate
@item
@emph{How do I return to the shell without leaving Zee?}
Type `Alt-X file_suspend RETURN'.
@item
@emph{How do I undo the previous command?}
Type Ctrl-Z (or `Alt-X edit_undo RETURN').
@item
@emph{How do I handle non-ASCII characters?}
Zee uses the operating system's locale support; however, it only works
with 8-bit locales at present.  Support for Unicode/UTF-8 is planned.
@end enumerate

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Invoking Zee, Initialization files, FAQ, Top
@chapter Invoking Zee

The command-line options are as follows:

@include opts.texi

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Initialization files, Key names, Invoking Zee, Top
@chapter Initialization file

@c FIXME: SYSCONFDIR "/" PACKAGE "rc"
When Zee is started, it normally loads the system initialization file,
typically installed somewhere like @file{/usr/local/share/zee/zeerc},
followed by the user initialization file @file{.zeerc} file in your home
directory.  The initialization files are written in the language Lua
(see @uref{http://www.lua.org/manual/5.1/} for the Lua manual).  The
user initialization file is most commonly used to initialize variables
and to bind keys.

Here's the default system initialization file:

@setfilename zeerc
@example
@include zeerc
@end example

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Key names, Commands, Initialization files, Top
@chapter Key names

This table contains the names of the keys that are used in Zee.

@include keys.texi

In key combinations, like @kbd{Alt-G}, the @kbd{Alt-} prefix means
hold the @key{ALT} key down while typing @kbd{g}.  The combination
@kbd{Ctrl-X} means hold the @key{CTRL} key down while typing @kbd{x}.

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Commands, Variables, Key names, Top
@chapter Commands

This table contains the full list of available commands that can be
called with the @kbd{Alt-X} key (please note that most commands have a
key binding anyway).

@include funcs.texi

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Variables, Bug reports, Commands, Top
@chapter Variables

This table contains the full list of available variables, that can be
modified at run-time with the @samp{preferences_set_variable} command
or set at start-up in the @file{.zeerc} initialization file.

@include vars.texi

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Bug reports,  , Variables, Top
@chapter Bug reports

@c FIXME: Get the bug report address from PACKAGE_BUGREPORT.
Any questions, comments, or bug reports should be sent to the
developers at @email{zee-devel@@lists.sourceforge.net}, or even better,
filed in the relevant tracker at @uref{http://sourceforge.net/projects/zee/}.
@c FIXME: Configure the URL centrally (also occurs in README and NEWS).

@contents

@bye
